Regarding the tradeoffs between module-based (MB) tokenizer and non-module based (NM):
1. Security - the smart contract risks of the MB tokenizer are limited, or at least quantifiable in a similar way to the non-module based. For the MB total funds at risk is the liquid funds in the Safe (not-invested), for the NM it is the funds sent from the Safe to the tokenizer. Essentially in both cases max funds at risk can be manually managed by the Safe manager.
2. Automation - The NM tokenizer needs to wait for the Safe to 1) disinvest and 2) transfer the funds to the tokenizer. The MB just needs the funds to be disinvested, and they would be available for withdrawals. Essentially the MB approach saves 1 manual step for the Safe manager.
3. Control - The MB approach allows for less control over the NM. An example of this would be an Advisor needing to perform a change in strategy, disinvesting the funds just for a user to redeem the funds before he can complete the re-investment. In the NM this could not happen as the Safe manager has control on what funds can be withdrawn at all times.
4. Costs - The NM would incur in more transaction costs by having to send funds to the tokenizer to maintain the liquidity buffer. Depending on the tx frequency/liquidity buffer size/blockchain fees (e.g. polygon) these extra costs could be made negligible.
My understanding is that at this stage more control is preferred over automation, so the non-module tokenizer works best. Regulatory needs are not considered in this analysis.  

Regarding the de-moduling of the current module-based tokenizer:   <br/>
**`TL;DR.`** Issues: mainly arising from redeeming dtokens, since this version of the tokenizer is not allowed to move Safe funds (not being a Safe module) => Solution: tokenizer is now an extension of the safe , meaning that the NAV for shares calculation is the sum of the Safe NAV and the tokenizer NAV => Benefits: small changes in usability, flexible liquidity buffer controlled by the Safe manager (users can withdraw automatically up to amount of liquid funds provided).  

I have been working on a way to implement the tokenizer without it being a Safe module. Currently, the tokenizer by being a safe module is allowed to extract the amount needed to fulfil withdrawals directly from the Safe, burn the dtokens and transfer the funds to the withdrawing address - all in the same transaction. This won't be possible without the tokenizer being a safe module, and we already discussed about the need for a safe manager moving funds to the tokenizer to provide liquidity for withdrawals. The issue with breaking up the tokenizer from the safe module revolves around nav calculation and share price, which get affected when moving funds from the safe. By sending funds to the tokenizer to provide withdrawals liquidity the nav will decrease, leading to a decrease in the share price and causing all sorts of imbalances/arbitrage opp/accounting issues. I see two kind of solutions:
1. NAV merge - Include the nav of the tokenizer together with the Safe nav, so that liquid funds in the tokenizer are equivalent to liquid funds in the safe. This would allow for a flexible liquidity buffer in the tokenizer which can be used for automatic withdrawals by users (up to the liquidity level).
2. Request-Fulfill system - Implement a request-fullfill system, in which there are no automatic withdrawals and the tokenizer holds no liquid funds. Users can open a withdrawal request with the tokenizer by depositing dtokens, and safe managers can fullfill those request by transferring funds and burning the dtokens.
Option 2 is by far the most secure, but it is time and cost intensive and so I wouldn't recommend it. Option 1 is pretty straightforward and it is the one I have currently implemented, it allows for easier management of total risk and liquidity. All funds in the tokenizer are accounted as part of the Safe for NAV calculation and dTokens price, and can be withdrawn back to the Safe by a single Safe owner. In terms of usability, as expected the only material difference from the module-based tokenizer is that the Safe manager needs to transfer funds to the tokenizer to provide liquidity for withdrawals.